Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language.CSS describes how HTML elements are to be displayed on screen, paper, or in other media. CSS saves a lot of work. It can control the layout of multiple web pages all at once. External stylesheets are stored in CSS files.All HTML elements can be considered as boxes. In CSS, the term "box model" is used when talking about design and layout. The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element. It consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the actual content.A CSS rule-set consists of a selector and a declaration block: The selector points to the HTML element you want to style. The declaration block contains one or more declarations separated by semicolons. Each declaration includes a CSS property name and a value, separated by a colon.A CSS pseudo-element is used to style specified parts of an element.With CSS3, you can give any element "rounded corners", by using the border-radius property.With the CSS3 border-image property, you can set an image to be used as the border around an element.Flexible boxes, or flexbox, is a new layout mode in CSS3. Use of flexbox ensures that elements behave predictably when the page layout must accommodate different screen sizes and different display devices.The viewport is the user's visible area of a web page. The viewport varies with the device, and will be smaller on a mobile phone than on a computer screen. Media query is a CSS technique introduced in CSS3. It uses the @media rule to include a block of CSS properties only if a certain condition is true.The CSS border properties allow you to specify the style, width, and color of an element's border.The CSS margin properties are used to create space around elements. The margin properties set the size of the white space OUTSIDE the border.The CSS padding properties are used to generate space around content. The padding properties set the size of the white space between the element content and the element border.Creating transparent images with CSS is easy. The CSS opacity property is a part of the CSS3 recommendation. A pseudo-class is used to define a special state of an element.